#### [back](admin_main.md)


Cassandra is highly available distributed system. This is because You can easily replicate your data across multiple nodes or event data centres that spans multiple locations to prevent downtime in case the node or data centre experiences a catastrophe event or unexpected failure. 

Cassandra is a decentralised system that doesn't have a single point of failure since it based on the peer-to-peer distributed design where all nodes are equally important. Cassandra uses a gossip protocol for the communication between the nodes where all nodes can know the state of all other nodes. Cassandra then uses replication of the data to ensure availability. When we create the Keyspace, we need to decide about the replication factor and the replication strategy. The replication factor defines how many copies or replicas of our data that we want to keep. The replication strategy defines where are we going to replicate the data (in which nodes).  Replicating the data in more than one node will ensure reliability and fault tolerance. Once a node is down, then all read and write requests will be rerouted to the replica nodes.


In the other hand, the replication strategy determine the physical location of the nodes that will be used as replica. Replication strategy uses the Snitch which is the protocol used to determine which nodes are performing well and which aren't and based on this information the replication strategy will replicate the data to the best performing nodes. There are different types of replication strategies that can be configured in Cassandra. For example, the SimpleStrategy is used if we have single data centre or only an individual node. This is the default strategy used and it will simply choose the replica based on the partitioner. It will just choose the first replica to be whichever the partitioner tells it and then it will choose the additional replicas to be next node that was added clock-wisely to the ring.  It is encouraged to use the NetworkTopologyStrategy especially if your deployment span multiple data centres. This strategy will define how many replicas you require to have in each data centre. Then NetworkTopologyStrategy will choose the replica by walking the ring clockwise until reaching the initial node of another rack. It will make sure to choose replicas in different racks because the nodes in the same rack tend to fail together due to power or network issues.