#### [back](admin_main.md)


Cassandra uses a peer-to-peer distribution model, such that all nodes in a cluster have an equal importance and there is no concept for a master or a salve. This makes Cassandra design very scalable and highly available. This peer-to-peer design Improves the overall scalability since all the nodes in a cluster can serve read and write requests and there is no single point of failure such as a master node.  Because all nodes can serve read and write requests, scaling the system is as simple as adding new node to the cluster. This makes Cassandra elastically scalable since you can easily scale up or down by just adding or removing nodes from the system.  Adding nodes to the cluster is also largely automatic and has minimal configuration.  

The data in Cassandra is petitioned across the different system nodes by using the Partitioner which uses a hashing function to create a token based on the partition key to decide where to put the data. Then when a node receives a read or write request from a application client connected to it, it will check with the Partitioner to find in which node the requested data is stored. Then it will act as a coordinator to forward the request to that node. Once the read or write request is succeed based on the configured consistency level, it will give back the result to the client. So read and write requests are served in t a similar way and can fulfilled by any node connected to the system. Horizontal scaling the system is then as simple as adding or removing nodes, data centres or even clusters. 